Police in Catalonia have said a person who appeared to be wearing an explosive belt has been killed in an incident in Subirats, west of Barcelona.

They earlier confirmed an operation was under way, amid reports that Younes Abouyaaqoub, who police suspect was the driver of a van that killed 13 people on Las Ramblas last week, has been arrested.

Spanish newspaper La Vanguardia reported that Mr Abouyaaqoub has been held.

Police declined to confirm the report but said on Twitter shortly before that an "incident" was under way in Subirats, 10km away, without giving further details.

Spanish police earlier extended the search for the suspect to all of Europe as details emerged of how he fled on foot after ramming his van into crowds on Las Ramblas before disappearing.

Mr Abouyaaqoub, 22, was born in Morocco.

The Catalan regional government this morning said all European police forces were searching for him and authorities could not rule out that he had slipped across the border into France.

"This person is no longer just being sought in Catalonia but in all European countries, this is an effort by European police," Joaquim Forn, in charge of home affairs in the northeastern Spanish region, told Catalan radio.

Mr Forn confirmed that police were now almost certain Mr Abouyaaqoub was the driver.

"Everything points to that," he added.

Authorities have stepped up checks at Spain's borders.

Normal bodily appearance

Approx 5’11"

Dark complexion

Short-haired

He could have a beard pic.twitter.com/MP36H8sz5e — Mossos (@mossos) August 21, 2017

The attack in Barcelona was linked to another hours later in the resort down of Cambrils, further down the Mediterranean coastline from Barcelona.

A car crashed into passers-by there and attackers got out to try and stab people.

Five suspects were shot dead, while a Spanish woman died in the attack.

The death toll has risen to 15 as a victim found stabbed to death in a car in Barcelona was linked to the case.

"We are raising the number of victims from 14 to 15 to include the victim in the vehicle found in Sant Just," Mr Forn told journalists.

Police said the van driver hijacked a car to escape following the Las Ramblas attack.

Read More:

A Catalan government official said all 15 victims have been identified.

Mr Abouyaaqoub abandoned the van after zig-zagging down Las Ramblas avenue at high speed, police have said. Witnesses had seen him walking away unarmed from the scene, they said.

Spanish papers El Pais and La Vanguardia said they had seen images of the man leaving Las Ramblas then crossing through La Boqueria food market, another tourist attraction, before disappearing.

El Pais published CCTV footage of a man wearing a black and white shirt similar to the one Abouyaaqoub wore when he was caught on a bank security camera the night before the attacks.

They also raided more homes overnight in Ripoll, a town in the foothills of the Pyrenees and close to France where many of the suspects in a 12-strong cell thought to be behind the attack had lived.

Others thought to be part of the suspected Islamist militant network have been arrested, shot by police or killed in an explosion at a house in Catalonia a day before Thursday's van attack.

Spanish political leaders from all the main parties were also due to meet later to review security measures as part of cross-party efforts to unite on anti-terrorist efforts.

It has also emerged that a Muslim cleric believed to have radicalised the men involved had lived in the Brussels suburb of Vilvoorde, known for being a hub for recruiting jihadist fighters to travel to Syria.

The authorities there say they monitored Abdelbaki Es Satty, and at one point contacted Catalan police who told them Es Satty had no terror links.

One of the suspected plotters also visited Zurich, while the Audi A3 of another was captured by a speed camera in Paris one week before the attack.