Homeless charities have called for immediate government action to ease the rental crisis as prices reached a new record high during the first six months of the year.

Thelatest rental report by property website Daft.ie shows that supply is at an all-time low.

The average monthly rent nationwide in the second quarter was up 12% to €1,159.

Daft.ie said it is the fifth quarter in a row a new all-time high has been set.

In Dublin, the increase in rents in the year to June was over 12%.

It means rents in the capital are up €260 a month since their previous peak in 2008.

Elsewhere, rents rose by 6.8% in Cork, while in Galway the average rent is €732 - 10% higher than a year previously.

At €525, Leitrim is the county with the cheapest average monthly rent.

The property website also said that there were just under 3,000 properties available to rent nationwide on 1 August - the lowest number it has ever recorded.

Read More:

The report's author, Ronan Lyons, said it is worrying that rent rises show no sign of abating and because availability is so low, there will be no downward pressure on rent.

He said 18,000 new dwellings are needed every year and 6,000 of those should be social housing.

"We still don't have an understanding of how housing works in government circles. You cannot build, whether it's for profit or not for profit, unless you can recoup your losses.

"So, for the market it needs to be on peoples' incomes and on social housing it needs to be tied into a subsidy system; effectively a cost rental set up.

"And until these two things are in place, until the cost of building is lowered, unfortunately we're not going to see things improve any time soon," he said.

In its response to the latest figures, the Peter McVerry Trust urged the Government to fund the building of affordable rental housing.

The national housing and homeless charity said the rising cost of rent is the main source of new homeless cases.

Focus Ireland has said the Government review of Rebuilding Ireland must include immediate action to ease the rental crisis and to get more vacant homes back into the housing stock.

Spokesperson Roughan McNamara said rising rents are forcing families and individuals into homelessness and making it harder for them to get out of it.

He said it is clear that policies to help ease the crisis are not working hard enough.

These families and children aren't just appearing out of thin air, they're coming from homes. They're suddenly called 'the homeless', they're not 'the homeless' and we really need to look at it from that point of view

Labour Party's spokesperson on housing Jan O'Sullivan said it shows the absolute failure of the Government's Rent Pressure Zone model to slow the pace of increases in the rental market.